README.md, before:

# sklearn2sql_heroku


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql_heroku.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql_heroku)

This is a Heroku web service client for experimenting with sklearn2sql.

sklearn2sql is an ongoing development tool for generating deployment SQL code from [scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/) objects.

For this web service, the user provides a pickled scikit-learn model and gets a JSON containing the SQL code for deploying the model.

**This web service is provided for demonstration purposes. Please don't use it with sensitive data.**

Early adopters feedback , improvement requests, hints and github issues are welcome.

# Demo

```Python
import pickle, json, requests, base64
from sklearn import datasets 
from sklearn.ensemble import *

# get a dataset 
iris = datasets.load_iris()# or whatever dataset
# train a model on the dataset
clf = RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=12, random_state = 1960).fit(iris.data, iris.target)

# stringify the model
b64_data = base64.b64encode(pickle.dumps(clf)).decode('utf-8')
# send the model th the web service
json_data={"Name":"model1", "PickleData":b64_data , "SQLDialect":"oracle"}
r = requests.post("https://sklearn2sql.herokuapp.com/model", json=json_data)
content = r.json()
lSQL = content["model"]["SQLGenrationResult"][0]["SQL"]
print(lSQL);
```

The script [test_client.py](test_client.py) is a sample usage for this web service (running on `https://sklearn2sql.herokuapp.com/`). 

More sample scripts are available in the [tests](tests) directory (WIP).

There is also a [Jupyter notebook](docs/WebService-MLP_Deploy.ipynb) demoing the service by executing the SQL code and comparing the deployment results.

# About sklearn2sql

Using sklearn2sql, it is possible to predict values from an already-fitted classifier or a regressor simply by executing some SQL code. It can be seen as an alternative to PMML-based methods to perform [In-database processing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-database_processing).

The SQL code is produced in an agnostic way (the mechansim used does not depend on the database) and supports most widely used relational databases (`["db2", "hive", "mssql", "mysql", "oracle", "postgresql", "sqlite"]`). 

It is designed to support all [classification and regression methods in scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/classes.html) (SVMs, linear models, naive-bayes. decision trees, MLP, etc) , as well as transformations (PCA, imputers, scalers), feature selection, outlier detection and  and their derived objects (random forest, meta-estimators, pipelines, feature unions, ensembles,  etc). 

Roughly speaking, sklearn2sql allows one to translate a scikit learn model as a large, machine-friendly ;) SQL code that can later be executed on your favorite database.  For example, this is a [multilayer perceptron on oracle](https://github.com/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql-demo/blob/master/sample_outputs_round_8/MLPClassifier/BreastCancer/oracle/demo2_MLPClassifier_oracle.sql) , and this is a [random forest on postgresql](https://github.com/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql-demo/blob/master/sample_outputs_round_8/RandomForestClassifier/FourClass_100/pgsql/demo2_RandomForestClassifier_pgsql.sql) .... 

# SQL Generation Quality 

We performed a set of benchmarks. We trained each supported model on a set of datasets (provided with sklearn), and generated the code for each database, compared the generated result with the python result.

The following figure gives **the error rate of the system** (as of 2017-08-08) for each database and each group of models. For instance, the group 'sklearn.ensemble' stands for all ensemble methods tests (AdaBoost, Bagging, GradientBoosting, RandomForest, ExtraTrees, etc).

![sample quality report](Quality/sklearn2sql_quality.png)

The detailed result of the quality tests is available in this [jupyter notebook](Quality/extensive_tests-debrief.ipynb) and will updated when needed.

Commit message:

Added a section on SQL design

README.md, after:

# sklearn2sql_heroku


[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql_heroku.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql_heroku)

This is a Heroku web service client for experimenting with sklearn2sql.

sklearn2sql is an ongoing development tool for generating deployment SQL code from [scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/) objects.

For this web service, the user provides a pickled scikit-learn model and gets a JSON containing the SQL code for deploying the model.

**This web service is provided for demonstration purposes. Please don't use it with sensitive data.**

Early adopters feedback , improvement requests, hints and github issues are welcome.

# Demo

```Python
import pickle, json, requests, base64
from sklearn import datasets 
from sklearn.ensemble import *

# get a dataset 
iris = datasets.load_iris()# or whatever dataset
# train a model on the dataset
clf = RandomForestClassifier(n_estimators=12, random_state = 1960).fit(iris.data, iris.target)

# stringify the model
b64_data = base64.b64encode(pickle.dumps(clf)).decode('utf-8')
# send the model th the web service
json_data={"Name":"model1", "PickleData":b64_data , "SQLDialect":"oracle"}
r = requests.post("https://sklearn2sql.herokuapp.com/model", json=json_data)
content = r.json()
lSQL = content["model"]["SQLGenrationResult"][0]["SQL"]
print(lSQL);
```

The script [test_client.py](test_client.py) is a sample usage for this web service (running on `https://sklearn2sql.herokuapp.com/`). 

More sample scripts are available in the [tests](tests) directory (WIP).

There is also a [Jupyter notebook](docs/WebService-MLP_Deploy.ipynb) demoing the service by executing the SQL code and comparing the deployment results.

# About sklearn2sql

Using sklearn2sql, it is possible to predict values from an already-fitted classifier or a regressor simply by executing some SQL code. It can be seen as an alternative to PMML-based methods to perform [In-database processing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In-database_processing).

The SQL code is produced in an agnostic way (the mechansim used does not depend on the database) and supports most widely used relational databases (`["db2", "hive", "mssql", "mysql", "oracle", "postgresql", "sqlite"]`). 

It is designed to support all [classification and regression methods in scikit-learn](http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/classes.html) (SVMs, linear models, naive-bayes. decision trees, MLP, etc) , as well as transformations (PCA, imputers, scalers), feature selection, outlier detection and  and their derived objects (random forest, meta-estimators, pipelines, feature unions, ensembles,  etc). 

Roughly speaking, sklearn2sql allows one to translate a scikit learn model as a large, machine-friendly ;) SQL code that can later be executed on your favorite database.  For example, this is a [multilayer perceptron on oracle](https://github.com/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql-demo/blob/master/sample_outputs_round_8/MLPClassifier/BreastCancer/oracle/demo2_MLPClassifier_oracle.sql) , and this is a [random forest on postgresql](https://github.com/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql-demo/blob/master/sample_outputs_round_8/RandomForestClassifier/FourClass_100/pgsql/demo2_RandomForestClassifier_pgsql.sql) .... 


# SQL Design


For the SQL code design, the author tried when possible to use meaningful aliases in the SQL code. The names are intention revealing according to the excellent [Modern SQL](http://modern-sql.com/use-case/literate-sql). For example, a [SQL generated from a decision tree](https://github.com/antoinecarme/sklearn2sql-demo/blob/master/sample_outputs_tuning_round_1/DecisionTreeClassifier/iris/pgsql/demo2_DecisionTreeClassifier_pgsql.sql) contains three common table expressions (CTEs) whose names are : "DT_node_lookup", "DT_node_data" and "DT_Output. 

This design has  a significant impact on the performance. All SQL codes are tested to execute in less than 2-3 minutes on the various databases.

# SQL Generation Quality 

We performed a set of benchmarks. We trained each supported model on a set of datasets (provided with sklearn), and generated the code for each database, compared the generated result with the python result.

The following figure gives **the error rate of the system** (as of 2017-08-08) for each database and each group of models. For instance, the group 'sklearn.ensemble' stands for all ensemble methods tests (AdaBoost, Bagging, GradientBoosting, RandomForest, ExtraTrees, etc).


![sample quality report](Quality/sklearn2sql_quality.png)

The detailed result of the quality tests is available in this [jupyter notebook](Quality/extensive_tests-debrief.ipynb) and will updated when needed.
